doc/styles.rst, before:

Working with styles
===================

Introduction
------------

Styles are used to change the look of your data while displayed on screen.
They are also used to determine the number format being used for a given cell
or range of cells.

Styles can be applied to the following aspects:

   * font to set font size, color, underlining, etc.
   * fill to set a pattern or color gradient
   * border to set borders on a cell
   * cell alignment
   * protection

The following are the default values

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import PatternFill, Border, Side, Alignment, Protection, Font
>>> font = Font(name='Calibri',
...                 size=11,
...                 bold=False,
...                 italic=False,
...                 vertAlign=None,
...                 underline='none',
...                 strike=False,
...                 color='FF000000')
>>> fill = PatternFill(fill_type=None,
...                 start_color='FFFFFFFF',
...                 end_color='FF000000')
>>> border = Border(left=Side(border_style=None,
...                           color='FF000000'),
...                 right=Side(border_style=None,
...                            color='FF000000'),
...                 top=Side(border_style=None,
...                          color='FF000000'),
...                 bottom=Side(border_style=None,
...                             color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal_direction=0,
...                 outline=Side(border_style=None,
...                              color='FF000000'),
...                 vertical=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 horizontal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                color='FF000000')
...                )
>>> alignment=Alignment(horizontal='general',
...                     vertical='bottom',
...                     text_rotation=0,
...                     wrap_text=False,
...                     shrink_to_fit=False,
...                     indent=0)
>>> number_format = 'General'
>>> protection = Protection(locked=True,
...                         hidden=False)
>>>

Styles are shared between objects and once they have been assigned they
cannot be changed. This stops unwanted side-effects such as changing the
style for lots of cells when instead of only one.

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font, Color
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl import Workbook
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> a1 = ws['A1']
>>> d4 = ws['D4']
>>> ft = Font(color=colors.RED)
>>> a1.font = ft
>>> d4.font = ft
>>>
>>> a1.font.italic = True # is not allowed # doctest: +SKIP
>>>
>>> # If you want to change the color of a Font, you need to reassign it::
>>>
>>> a1.font = Font(color=colors.RED, italic=True) # the change only affects A1


Copying styles
--------------

Styles can also be copied

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font
>>> from copy import copy
>>>
>>> ft1 = Font(name='Arial', size=14)
>>> ft2 = copy(ft1)
>>> ft2.name = "Tahoma"
>>> ft1.name
'Arial'
>>> ft2.name
'Tahoma'
>>> ft2.size # copied from the
14.0


Basic Font Colors
-----------------
Colors are usually RGB or aRGB hexvalues. The `colors` module contains some constants

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles.colors import RED
>>> font = Font(color=RED)
>>> font = Font(color="FFBB00")

There is also support for legacy indexed colors as well as themes and tints

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles.colors import Color
>>> c = Color(indexed=32)
>>> c = Color(theme=6, tint=0.5)


Applying Styles
---------------
Styles are applied directly to cells

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font, Fill
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>> c = ws['A1']
>>> c.font = Font(size=12)

Styles can also applied to columns and rows but note that this applies only
to cells created (in Excel) after the file is closed. If you want to apply
styles to entire rows and columns then you must apply the style to each cell
yourself. This is a restriction of the file format::

>>> col = ws.column_dimensions['A']
>>> col.font = Font(bold=True)
>>> row = ws.row_dimensions[1]
>>> row.font = Font(underline="single")


Edit Page Setup
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.page_setup.orientation = ws.ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE
>>> ws.page_setup.paperSize = ws.PAPERSIZE_TABLOID
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToHeight = 0
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToWidth = 1


Worksheet Additional Properties
-------------------------------

These are advanced properties for particular behaviours, the most used ones
are the "fitTopage" page setup property and the tabColor that define the
background color of the worksheet tab.

Available properties for worksheet:
"enableFormatConditionsCalculation", "filterMode", "published",
"syncHorizontal", "syncRef", "syncVertical", "transitionEvaluation",
"transitionEntry", "tabColor". Available fields for page setup properties:
"autoPageBreaks", "fitToPage". Available fields for outline properties:
"applyStyles", "summaryBelow", "summaryRight", "showOutlineSymbols".

see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/documentformat.openxml.spreadsheet.sheetproperties%28v=office.14%29.aspx_ for details.

..note::
        By default, outline properties are intitialized so you can directly modify each of their 4 attributes, while page setup properties don't.
        If you want modify the latter, you should first initialize a PageSetupPr object with the required parameters.
        Once done, they can be directly modified by the routine later if needed.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl2[.]worksheet.properties import WorksheetProperties, PageSetupProperties
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> wsprops = ws.sheet_properties
>>> wsprops.tabColor = "1072BA"
>>> wsprops.filterMode = False
>>> wsprops.PageSetupProperties = PageSetupProperties(fitToPage=True, autoPageBreaks=False)
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.summaryBelow = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.applyStyles = True
>>> wsprops.PageSetupProperties.autoPageBreaks = True

Commit message:

Add sample code for formatting merged cells.

doc/styles.rst, after:

Working with styles
===================

Introduction
------------

Styles are used to change the look of your data while displayed on screen.
They are also used to determine the number format being used for a given cell
or range of cells.

Styles can be applied to the following aspects:

   * font to set font size, color, underlining, etc.
   * fill to set a pattern or color gradient
   * border to set borders on a cell
   * cell alignment
   * protection

The following are the default values

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import PatternFill, Border, Side, Alignment, Protection, Font
>>> font = Font(name='Calibri',
...                 size=11,
...                 bold=False,
...                 italic=False,
...                 vertAlign=None,
...                 underline='none',
...                 strike=False,
...                 color='FF000000')
>>> fill = PatternFill(fill_type=None,
...                 start_color='FFFFFFFF',
...                 end_color='FF000000')
>>> border = Border(left=Side(border_style=None,
...                           color='FF000000'),
...                 right=Side(border_style=None,
...                            color='FF000000'),
...                 top=Side(border_style=None,
...                          color='FF000000'),
...                 bottom=Side(border_style=None,
...                             color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 diagonal_direction=0,
...                 outline=Side(border_style=None,
...                              color='FF000000'),
...                 vertical=Side(border_style=None,
...                               color='FF000000'),
...                 horizontal=Side(border_style=None,
...                                color='FF000000')
...                )
>>> alignment=Alignment(horizontal='general',
...                     vertical='bottom',
...                     text_rotation=0,
...                     wrap_text=False,
...                     shrink_to_fit=False,
...                     indent=0)
>>> number_format = 'General'
>>> protection = Protection(locked=True,
...                         hidden=False)
>>>

Styles are shared between objects and once they have been assigned they
cannot be changed. This stops unwanted side-effects such as changing the
style for lots of cells when instead of only one.

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font, Color
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import colors
>>> from openpyxl import Workbook
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> a1 = ws['A1']
>>> d4 = ws['D4']
>>> ft = Font(color=colors.RED)
>>> a1.font = ft
>>> d4.font = ft
>>>
>>> a1.font.italic = True # is not allowed # doctest: +SKIP
>>>
>>> # If you want to change the color of a Font, you need to reassign it::
>>>
>>> a1.font = Font(color=colors.RED, italic=True) # the change only affects A1


Copying styles
--------------

Styles can also be copied

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font
>>> from copy import copy
>>>
>>> ft1 = Font(name='Arial', size=14)
>>> ft2 = copy(ft1)
>>> ft2.name = "Tahoma"
>>> ft1.name
'Arial'
>>> ft2.name
'Tahoma'
>>> ft2.size # copied from the
14.0


Basic Font Colors
-----------------
Colors are usually RGB or aRGB hexvalues. The `colors` module contains some constants

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles.colors import RED
>>> font = Font(color=RED)
>>> font = Font(color="FFBB00")

There is also support for legacy indexed colors as well as themes and tints

>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles.colors import Color
>>> c = Color(indexed=32)
>>> c = Color(theme=6, tint=0.5)


Applying Styles
---------------
Styles are applied directly to cells

.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl2[.]styles import Font, Fill
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>> c = ws['A1']
>>> c.font = Font(size=12)

Styles can also applied to columns and rows but note that this applies only
to cells created (in Excel) after the file is closed. If you want to apply
styles to entire rows and columns then you must apply the style to each cell
yourself. This is a restriction of the file format::

>>> col = ws.column_dimensions['A']
>>> col.font = Font(bold=True)
>>> row = ws.row_dimensions[1]
>>> row.font = Font(underline="single")

.. _styling-merged-cells:

Styling Merged Cells
--------------------

Sometimes you want to format a range of cells as if they were a single
object. Excel pretends that this is possible by merging cells (deleting all
but the top-left cell) and then recreating them in order to apply
pseudo-styles.

.. literalinclude:: format_merged_cells.py


Edit Page Setup
-------------------
.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]workbook import Workbook
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> ws.page_setup.orientation = ws.ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE
>>> ws.page_setup.paperSize = ws.PAPERSIZE_TABLOID
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToHeight = 0
>>> ws.page_setup.fitToWidth = 1


Worksheet Additional Properties
-------------------------------

These are advanced properties for particular behaviours, the most used ones
are the "fitTopage" page setup property and the tabColor that define the
background color of the worksheet tab.

Available properties for worksheet:
"enableFormatConditionsCalculation", "filterMode", "published",
"syncHorizontal", "syncRef", "syncVertical", "transitionEvaluation",
"transitionEntry", "tabColor". Available fields for page setup properties:
"autoPageBreaks", "fitToPage". Available fields for outline properties:
"applyStyles", "summaryBelow", "summaryRight", "showOutlineSymbols".

see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/documentformat.openxml.spreadsheet.sheetproperties%28v=office.14%29.aspx_ for details.

..note::
        By default, outline properties are intitialized so you can directly modify each of their 4 attributes, while page setup properties don't.
        If you want modify the latter, you should first initialize a PageSetupPr object with the required parameters.
        Once done, they can be directly modified by the routine later if needed.


.. :: doctest

>>> from openpyxl2[.]workbook import Workbook
>>> from openpyxl2[.]worksheet.properties import WorksheetProperties, PageSetupProperties
>>>
>>> wb = Workbook()
>>> ws = wb.active
>>>
>>> wsprops = ws.sheet_properties
>>> wsprops.tabColor = "1072BA"
>>> wsprops.filterMode = False
>>> wsprops.PageSetupProperties = PageSetupProperties(fitToPage=True, autoPageBreaks=False)
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.summaryBelow = False
>>> wsprops.outlinePr.applyStyles = True
>>> wsprops.PageSetupProperties.autoPageBreaks = True
